Cake Manager Micro Service (fictitious)
=======================================

A summer intern started on this project but never managed to get it finished.
The developer assured us that some of the above is complete, but at the moment accessing the /cakes endpoint
returns a 404, so getting this working should be the first priority.

Requirements:
* By accessing /cakes, it should be possible to list the cakes currently in the system. JSON would be an acceptable response format.

* It must be possible to add a new cake.

* It must be possible to update an existing cake.

* It must be possible to delete an existing cake.

Comments:
* We feel like the software stack used by the original developer is quite outdated, it would be good to migrate the entire application to something more modern. If you wish to update the repo in this manner, feel free! An explanation of the benefits of doing so (and any downsides) can be discussed at interview.

* Any other changes to improve the repo are appreciated (implementation of design patterns, seperation of concerns, ensuring the API follows REST principles etc)

Bonus points:
* Add some suitable tests (unit/integration...)
* Add some Authentication / Authorisation to the API
* Continuous Integration via any cloud CI system
* Containerisation

Scope
* Only the API and related code is in scope. No GUI of any kind is required


Original Project Info
=====================

To run a server locally execute the following command:

`mvn jetty:run`

and access the following URL:

`http://localhost:8282/`

Feel free to change how the project is run, but clear instructions must be given in README
You can use any IDE you like, so long as the project can build and run with Maven or Gradle.

The project loads some pre-defined data in to an in-memory database, which is acceptable for this exercise.  There is
no need to create persistent storage.


Submission
==========

Please provide your version of this project as a git repository (e.g. Github, BitBucket, etc).

A fork of this repo, or a Pull Request would be suitable.

Good luck!

Changes 
==========
* Backend part was moved from servlets to Spring Boot Rest project
* Follow endpoints are implemented:
  * GET /cake - get all cakes
  * GET /cake/{id} - get cake by id
  * POST /cake - create new cake
  * PUT /cake/{id} - update cake
  * DELETE /cake/{id} - delete cake
* Initial data load was moved from dynamic URL pulling to loading from resources file
* Autogenerated REST documentation is available in Swagger and OpenAPI 3.0 format
* Project is dockerised in order to simplify running 


### How to build
#### How to build locally
Open project in IDE of choice as Java Maven project, execute maven `compile` goal. 

Alternatively with maven installed,go to project folder and execute `mvn compile` command

#### How to build Docker image
in project root execute follow command, it will create docker image named "cake-manager" in local repository 
```
docker build -t cake-manager .  
```

### How to run locally
#### prerequisites:
* JRE installed, version 17+. Can check with running `java --version`
* Maven installed, version 3.8.6+. Can check with running `mvn --version`

#### running from command line
Follow command can be triggered to start web app explicitly
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

#### running from IDE
Execute method main in `com.waracle.cakemgr.CakeManagerApplication` class, which would start the local server, available at http://localhost:8282/

#### running from Docker
execute follow command to start container exposing port to 8282 
```
docker run -p 8282:8282 cake-manager
```

### How to test if app is working

Post startup health endpoint should return valid response using this URL:
http://localhost:8282/actuator/health

Also, documentation in Swagger format is available via  http://localhost:8282/swagger-ui/index.html link, it also could be used to trigger API endpoints

NEXT STEPS
============
For the next steps it would be necessary to answer few questions about application architecture and patterns of usage.
* Web app part - how API would be used, is there any existing front-end. If not - the next action would be to create simple front end app which would consume those APIs.
* Security - how API is going to be used in real world and if it's necessary to secure endpoints. In some cases security is extracted to the level of API gateway or by running together with API consumer in isolated environments. However, if this going to be secured, it will be necessary to identify systems responsible for authentication and authorisation. Most common case is to have a separate layer, with  OAuth providers issuing security tokens in JWT format, which can be validated in app code.
* CI/CD - current development process is simplified and can be described as roofless "push to production on every commit". Practically development process should be set up to support process of automated testing with code passing quality gates before coming to production. These gates would include running unit tests for this application and more testing layers (integration tests, end-to-end tests, performance tests) as well as code scanned for vulnerabilities. Post quality gates there should be automated push of development artifacts (jars, docker images) to corresponding repositories. Therefore, advise is to implement development flow when developer makes changes in its own branch and once code is ready and pull request is created - all heavy checks are happening on the pull request, deployment is happening of PR merge to master branch.

